**Muon Telescope Simulation and Analysis**

This project involves the development of a Muon Telescope simulation using GEANT4, a powerful toolkit for simulating the passage of particles through matter. Additionally, the analysis part is performed using CERN ROOT, a data analysis framework used widely in particle physics.
**Overview**

The Muon Telescope simulation aims to image the target using detector simulation. It allows users to understand and predict the behaviour of muons passing through the setup, enabling various experimental analyses.
#Features

    GEANT4 Simulation: Accurate modeling of muon interactions within the detector.
    CERN ROOT Analysis: Data analysis toolkit for processing simulation outputs.
    Muon Tracking: Capturing trajectories and properties of detected muons.
    Visualization: Capability to visualize the simulated detector setup and muon paths.

**Installation**

To build and run this project, follow these steps:
Clone the Repository:

bash

git clone https://github.com/abhich2507/muon-telescope.git
cd muon-telescope

Create a Build Directory:

bash

mkdir build &&
cd build

CMake Configuration:

bash

     cmake ..

Build the Project:


    make

**Usage**

Once the project is built successfully, you can run the simulation and perform analyses using the following commands:
Run the Simulation:

     ./muon_simulation

Perform Analysis using root file generated by simulation.

    root MakeClass.C
Two files will be generated: MyClass.h and MyClass.C. You can modify the p

**Dependencies**

Ensure you have the following dependencies installed:

    GEANT4
    CERN ROOT



This project is based on the GEANT4 toolkit developed by the GEANT collaboration and the CERN ROOT framework developed by CERN. For any query contact me @abhishek.2019@niser.ac.in
